README.md, before:

# changeme [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ztgrace/changeme.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ztgrace/changeme)

A default credential scanner.

## About

I wrote changeme out of frustration with commercial vulnerability scanners missing common default credentials. Getting default credentials added to commercial scanners is often difficult and slow. changeme is designed to be simple to add new credentials without having to write any code or modules.

changeme keeps credential data separate from code. All credentials are stored in [yaml](http://yaml.org/) files so they can be both easily read by humans and processed by changeme. Credential files can be created by using the `./changeme.py --mkcred` tool and answering a few questions.

changeme supports the http/https, mssql, mysql, postgres, ssh, ssh w/key, snmp, mongodb and ftp protocols. Use `./changeme.py --dump` to output all of the currently available credentials.

You can load your targets using a variety of methods, single ip address/host, subnet, list of hosts, nmap xml file and Shodan query. All methods except for Shodan are loaded as a positional argument and the type is inferred.

## Installation

changeme has only been tested on Linux and has known issues on Windows and OS X/macOS. Use docker to run changeme on the unsupported platforms.

Stable versions of changeme can be found on the [releases](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/releases) page.

For mssql support, `unixodbc-dev` needs to be installed prior to installing the `pyodbc`.

[PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/) is required in your PATH for HTML report screenshots.

Use `pip` to install the required python modules: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Docker

A convenient way of running changeme is to do so inside a Docker container. You can run a pre-built container from Docker Hub, or build your own using the instructions below.

### Run changeme in Docker

1. Download the container: `docker pull ztgrace/changeme`
2. Run the container: `docker run -it ztgrace/changeme /bin/bash`

### Build from Dockerfile

1. Build the docker container: `docker build -t changeme .`
2. Run changeme from inside the container: `docker run -it changeme /bin/bash'

## Usage Examples

Below are some common usage examples.

* Scan a single host: `./changeme.py 192.168.59.100`
* Scan a subnet for default creds: `./changeme.py 192.168.59.0/24`
* Scan using an nmap file `./changeme.py subnet.xml`
* Scan a subnet for Tomcat default creds and set the timeout to 5 seconds: `./changeme.py -n "Apache Tomcat" --timeout 5 192.168.59.0/24`
* Use [Shodan](https://www.shodan.io/) to populate a targets list and check them for default credentials: `./changeme.py --shodan_query "Server: SQ-WEBCAM" --shodan_key keygoeshere -c camera`
* Scan for SSH and known SSH keys: `./changeme.py --protocols ssh,ssh_key 192.168.59.0/24`
* Scan a host for SNMP creds using the protocol syntax: `./changeme.py snmp://192.168.1.20`

See [Wiki Examples](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/wiki/Examples) for more detailed examples.

## Known Issues

The telnet scanner is broken.

Additionally, anything filed under https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/issues as a bug.

## Bugs and Enhancements

Bugs and enhancements are tracked at [https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/issues](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/issues).

**Request a credential:** Please add an issue to Github and apply the credential label.

**Vote for a credential:** If you would like to help us prioritize which credentials to add, you can add a comment to a credential issue.

Please see the [wiki](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/wiki) for more details.

## Contributors

Thanks for code contributions and suggestions.

* @AlessandroZ
* @m0ther_
* @GraphX
* @Equinox21_
* https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/graphs/contributors

Commit message:

Fixing remaining issues with #38 and adding cred from #48

README.md, after:

# changeme [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ztgrace/changeme.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ztgrace/changeme)

A default credential scanner.

## About

changeme picks up where commercial scanners leave off. It focuses on detecting default and backdoor credentials and not necessarily common credentials. It's default mode is to scan HTTP default credentials, but has support for other credentials.

changeme is designed to be simple to add new credentials without having to write any code or modules. changeme keeps credential data separate from code. All credentials are stored in [yaml](http://yaml.org/) files so they can be both easily read by humans and processed by changeme. Credential files can be created by using the `./changeme.py --mkcred` tool and answering a few questions.

changeme supports the http/https, mssql, mysql, postgres, ssh, ssh w/key, snmp, mongodb and ftp protocols. Use `./changeme.py --dump` to output all of the currently available credentials.

You can load your targets using a variety of methods, single ip address/host, subnet, list of hosts, nmap xml file and Shodan query. All methods except for Shodan are loaded as a positional argument and the type is inferred.

## Installation

changeme has only been tested on Linux and has known issues on Windows and OS X/macOS. Use docker to run changeme on the unsupported platforms. It supports either a redis-backed queue (most stable) or an in-memory backed queue.

Stable versions of changeme can be found on the [releases](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/releases) page.

For mssql support, `unixodbc-dev` needs to be installed prior to installing the `pyodbc`.

[PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/) is required in your PATH for HTML report screenshots.

Use `pip` to install the required python modules: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Docker

A convenient way of running changeme is to do so inside a Docker container. You can run a pre-built container from Docker Hub, or build your own using the instructions below.

### Run changeme in Docker

1. Download the container: `docker pull ztgrace/changeme`
2. Run the container: `docker run -it ztgrace/changeme /bin/bash`

### Build from Dockerfile

1. Build the docker container: `docker build -t changeme .`
2. Run changeme from inside the container: `docker run -it changeme /bin/bash'

## Usage Examples

Below are some common usage examples.

* Scan a single host: `./changeme.py 192.168.59.100`
* Scan a subnet for default creds: `./changeme.py 192.168.59.0/24`
* Scan using an nmap file `./changeme.py subnet.xml`
* Scan a subnet for Tomcat default creds and set the timeout to 5 seconds: `./changeme.py -n "Apache Tomcat" --timeout 5 192.168.59.0/24`
* Use [Shodan](https://www.shodan.io/) to populate a targets list and check them for default credentials: `./changeme.py --shodan_query "Server: SQ-WEBCAM" --shodan_key keygoeshere -c camera`
* Scan for SSH and known SSH keys: `./changeme.py --protocols ssh,ssh_key 192.168.59.0/24`
* Scan a host for SNMP creds using the protocol syntax: `./changeme.py snmp://192.168.1.20`

See [Wiki Examples](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/wiki/Examples) for more detailed examples.

## Known Issues

The telnet scanner is broken.

Additionally, anything filed under https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/issues as a bug.

## Bugs and Enhancements

Bugs and enhancements are tracked at [https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/issues](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/issues).

**Request a credential:** Please add an issue to Github and apply the credential label.

**Vote for a credential:** If you would like to help us prioritize which credentials to add, you can add a comment to a credential issue.

Please see the [wiki](https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/wiki) for more details.

## Contributors

Thanks for code contributions and suggestions.

* @AlessandroZ
* @m0ther_
* @GraphX
* @Equinox21_
* https://github.com/ztgrace/changeme/graphs/contributors
